### Those Are Rookie Numbers
30 points
> You've overheard a discussion between two classmates arguing whether the size really matters. What does this have to do with RSA?

---

We get given `params.txt` containing numbers labelled N, E and C. N and E make up an RSA public key while C is the ciphertext generated by it. Something interesting to note here is how short N is, just 256 bits. N is made up of two primes, P and Q, which if you're able to work out you can use to find the private key, which can then decode the messages. Well turns out there's a nice website that'll do this for you, <factordb.com>. So now I have the primes and I have E, it's fully possible to work out the private key. Thing is, the wikipedia page isn't too helpful, I didn't quite understand how exactly some of the values were calculated, and others were still using numbers to big to solve in a reasonable time. So I found [RSATool][RSATool]. I fed this P and Q and it gave me a nice private key in it's standard encoding, in `key.pem`. I then hopped over to a linux vm and ran the following command over it to get the raw values out of it: `openssl rsa -noout -text -in key.pem > key_info.txt`. Then using python-rsa I could just feed in these values and get my decrypted string out.

```
t@t:~$ python decrypt_PY3.py
timctf{th0sE_rOoKIe_numB3rz}
```

There are almost certainly better ways to do this. There were quite a lot of stackoverflow pages I found which seemed helpful, but I didn't understand all the syntax, and blatant copy-pasting didn't work. When 'Not Your Average RSA' came out I tried the same, but unfortunately that uses multiple primes, and I couldn't find anything to correctly work out D for me there, if I had a better understanding I might have solved that.


[RSATool]: https://github.com/ius/rsatool
